1. How the Agent Knows Which Tools to Use
The tools are described to the agent, not hardcoded into it

The agent does not have built-in knowledge of tools. Instead, every time a session starts, the backend sends the LLM a structured list of available tools — their names, descriptions, and expected inputs. The LLM reads these descriptions and decides which tool fits the situation.

For example, a tool definition looks roughly like this internally:

{
  "name": "run_shell_command",
  "description": "Run a terminal command in the project container. Use this to install packages, run tests, or execute scripts.",
  "parameters": {
    "command": "string — the shell command to run"
  }
}
The LLM matches your request against these descriptions using language understanding. If you say "install this package," it maps that to run_shell_command with npm install .... It is not pattern matching — it is semantic reasoning over the tool descriptions.

Why this design?

Because it is flexible. You can add new tools without retraining the model — just update the descriptions sent at the start of the session. The model adapts immediately.

2. Which Checks the Agent Performs and Why
The agent performs checks at key decision points to avoid acting on wrong assumptions. These are not random — they follow a professional developer's instincts:

Before writing a file:

Read the existing file first. Writing blindly risks destroying existing logic the agent did not know about.
After running a command:

Check the exit code and output. A failed npm install should stop the agent, not let it keep building on broken dependencies.
After writing code:

Run a typecheck or linter if available. Catches syntax and type errors before they reach the preview.
Before creating something new:

Search for whether it already exists. Prevents duplicate components, duplicate routes, duplicate database tables.
After a multi-step build:

Re-read key files to confirm the final state matches what was intended. The agent's memory of what it wrote can drift from reality if multiple files were changed.
Why these specific checks?

They mirror the mental checklist an experienced developer runs automatically. The agent is trained on vast amounts of developer conversations, code reviews, and debugging sessions — so it has absorbed the pattern of "check before act, verify after act."

3. How the Agent Grows Its Knowledge and Thinking
This happens at two levels:

Level 1 — Training time (permanent, baked in)

The LLM was trained on enormous datasets: GitHub repositories, Stack Overflow, documentation, technical books, code review threads. During training, the model learned:

Common patterns in every major language and framework
What mistakes developers make and how they get fixed
How to reason through ambiguous requirements
How to break large problems into smaller steps
This knowledge is frozen into the model's weights. It does not change during your session.

Level 2 — Runtime context (temporary, per session)

Within a session, the agent "grows" its understanding by accumulating context in the conversation window:

Every file it reads adds to what it knows about your project
Every tool result tells it whether its last action succeeded
Every user message corrects or extends its understanding
But this is temporary — it resets when the session ends.

Level 3 — Persistent memory (MustaFlow specific)

This is where MustaFlow adds something beyond the base Replit agent. The Knowledge Vault stores lessons learned about your specific project after every build:

"This project uses Tailwind v4 utility classes, not v3"
"The user prefers cards over tables for displaying lists"
"The database uses UUIDs, not integer IDs"
These lessons are injected back into the context of future sessions. So the agent effectively remembers your project's patterns across separate conversations — even though the LLM itself has no persistent memory.

Why is this necessary?

Because LLMs have a context window limit. You cannot fit the entire history of a large project into every prompt. The Knowledge Vault is a curated, compressed summary of the most important facts — it lets the agent act like it has been working on your project for months even when starting a fresh session.

4. How Integrations Work
What an integration is

An integration is a pre-wired connection between the agent and a third-party service (Stripe, GitHub, Linear, Google Sheets, etc.). Instead of you having to explain the API and provide credentials, the integration:

Already knows the API surface (endpoints, authentication, data shapes)
Already has credentials provisioned and stored securely
Exposes the service as tools the agent can call directly
How the agent uses them

When you say "add Stripe payments," the agent does not go look up the Stripe docs. The integration layer has already translated Stripe's API into a set of tools with plain-language descriptions. The agent picks the right tool the same way it picks any tool — by matching your request to the description.

Under the hood, when the agent calls a Stripe tool, the integration layer:

Retrieves the stored credentials
Makes the real API call to Stripe
Returns the result to the agent
The agent never sees the raw credentials — it just sees the result.

Why this design?

Security and simplicity. The agent does not need to handle authentication flows or credential management. The integration layer is a trusted intermediary that handles all of that, so the agent can focus purely on what to do rather than how to authenticate.

5. Keys — How, When, Why, and Memory
This is one of the most nuanced parts. Here is the full picture:

What "keys" means in this context

PK (Publishable Key): Safe to expose in frontend code. Used to initialize client-side SDKs (e.g. Stripe.js, Clerk).
SK (Secret Key): Must never leave the server. Used for privileged API calls (charge a card, create a user).
DB connection string: Gives full read/write access to your database. Treated as the most sensitive credential.
When the agent creates them

The agent does not generate keys itself — it provisions them by calling the relevant service's API. For example:

When setting up Stripe, it calls Stripe's API to retrieve your test and live keys
When setting up a database, it calls the DB provider's API (e.g. Neon) to create a new project and get the connection string
In MustaFlow specifically, when a new agentic project is created:

A Fly.io machine is provisioned (for server-side code execution)
A Neon Postgres database is provisioned
The connection string is returned and immediately encrypted
How they are stored

Keys are never stored in plain text. MustaFlow uses AES-256-GCM encryption. The encrypted value is stored in the database with a format like:

v1:<initialization_vector>:<ciphertext>:<auth_tag>
The encryption key itself (ENCRYPTION_KEY) lives in environment secrets — separate from the database — so even if the database is compromised, the keys inside it are unreadable without the separate encryption key.

How they are injected without being exposed

When a build runs, the server decrypts the keys in memory and injects them as environment variables into the running container. The keys travel from database → server memory → container environment. They are never written to a file, never logged, never returned to the browser.

The API also enforces this — if you request a secret via the API, you only get back a masked preview like ••••••••XXXX. The real value never leaves the server.

How the agent "memorizes" them

The agent itself does not store keys — and by design, it should not. Here is how the memory actually works:

Keys are stored in the project secrets store (encrypted in the database)
At the start of each agent session, the agent is told "these environment variables are available" — just the names, not the values
When the agent writes code that needs a key (e.g. process.env.STRIPE_SECRET_KEY), it references it by name
At runtime, the actual value is injected by the server
This means the agent can write correct code that uses the key without ever knowing what the key's value is. The separation is intentional — it keeps the agent stateless with respect to credentials.

Why all of this matters

Keys are the most dangerous thing in any app. A leaked secret key can drain a Stripe account, expose a database, or compromise user accounts. The entire chain — encryption at rest, masked API responses, environment injection, agent ignorance of values — is designed so that even if any single layer is compromised, the keys themselves are not exposed.

Summary
Concern	How it works	Why
Tool selection	LLM reasons over tool descriptions sent at session start	Flexibility without retraining
Checks	Mirrors developer instincts — read before write, verify after run	Prevents compounding errors
Knowledge growth	Training (permanent) + session context (temporary) + Knowledge Vault (persistent per project)	Context window limits mean you need curated memory
Integrations	Pre-wired API tools with stored credentials, agent calls by name	Security + simplicity
Keys	Provisioned via API, encrypted at rest, injected at runtime, never exposed	Defense in depth against credential leaks
